My father could have been a great comedian but he didn't believe that was possible for him and so he made a conservative choice. Instead he got a safe job as an accountant and when I was 12 years old he was let go from that safe job and our family had to do whatever we could to survive. I learned many great lessons from my father, no the least of which was that you can fail at what you don't want so you might as well take a chance on doing what you love.  


That's not the only thing he taught me though. I watched the effect of my father's love and humor and how it altered the world around me, and I thought, "That's something to do, that's something worth my time!". It wasn't long before I started acting up, people would come over to the house and they would be greeted by a 7 year old throwing himself down a large flight of stairs. They would say "What happened?!?" and I would say "I don't know, let's check the replay." I'd go back to the top of the stairs and come back down in slow motion. It was a very strange household. My father used to brag I wasn't a ham I was the whole pig. And he treated my talent as if it was his second chance. 


When I was about 28 after a decade as a professional comedian I realized one night in LA that the purpose of my life had always been to free people from concern, just like my dad. And when I realized this I dubbed my new devotion the church of Freedom From Concern. The church of FFC. And I dedicated myself to that ministry, what's yours? How will you serve the world? What do they need, that your talent can provide? That is all you have to figure out. As someone who has done what you're about to go and do I can tell you from experience that effect you have on others is the most valuable currency there is. Because everything you gain in life will rot and fall apart and all that will be left of you is what was in your heart. My choosing to free people from concern got me to the top of a mountain, look where I am, look what I get to do, everywhere I go. I'm going to get emotional because when I tap into this it really is extraordinary to me. I did something that made people present their best selves to me wherever I go. 

I've often said that I wish people could realize all their dreams and wealth and fame so they could see that it's not where you're gonna find your sense of completion. Like many of you I was concerned with going out into the world and doing something bigger than myself, until someone smarter than myself made me realize that there is nothing bigger than myself. Because life doesn't happen to you, it happens for you. How do I know this? I don't, but I'm making sound and that's the important thing, that's what I'm here to do. Sometimes I think that's the only thing that's important really. It's just letting each other know we are here, reminding each other that we are part of a larger self. Your job is not to figure out how it's going to happen for you, but to open the door in your head and when the door opens in real life just walk through it. And don't worry if you miss your cue cause there are always doors opening, they keep opening. And when I say life doesn't happen to you, it happens for you, I really don't know if that's true. I'm just making a conscious choice to perceive challenges as something beneficial so I can deal with them in the most productive way. You'll come up with your own style, that's part of the fun. Oh, and why not take a chance on faith as well. Not religion, but faith. Not hope, but faith. I don't believe in hope, hope is a beggar, hope walks through the fire and faith leaps over it. 

I used to believe that who I was ended at the edge of my skin, that I had been given this little vehicle called a body from which to experience creation. And though I couldn't have asked for a sportier model, it was after all a loaner and would have to be returned. Then I learned that everything outside the vehicle was part of me too, and now I drive a convertible. Yeah man, top down, wind in my hair, woohoo! I am elated and truly, truly, truly excited to be present and fully connected to you at this important moment in your journey, I hope you are ready to open the rough and take it all in. You are the vanguard of knowledge and consciousness, a new wave in a vast ocean of possibilities. On the other side of that door there is a world starving for new ideas, new leadership. I've been out there for 30 years, she's a wildcat, oho she'll rub up against a leg and purr until you pick her up and start petting her and then out nowhere she'll swat you in the face! It can be rough out there, but that's okay because there is soft serve ice cream ... with sprinkles. I guess that's what I'm really trying to say here today, sometimes it's okay to eat your feelings. 

Now fear is going to be a player in your life, but you get to decide how much. You can spend your whole life imagining ghosts, worrying about the pathway to the future, but all there will every be is what's happening here and the decisions we make in this moment which are either based in love or fear. So many of us choose our path based on fear disguised as practicality. What we really want seems impossibly out of reach and ridiculous to expect so we never dare to ask the universe for it. I'm saying, I'm the proof that you can ask the universe for it, please.

I am at the top of the mountain and the only one that I hadn't freed was myself and that's when my search for identity deepened. I wondered who I'd be without my fame, who would I be if I said things that people didn't want to hear, or if I defied their expectations of me. And that piece, that piece that we are after lies somewhere beyond personality, beyond the perception of other, beyond invention and disguise, even beyond effort itself. You can join the game, fight the wars, play with form all you want, but to find real peace you have to let the armor go. Your need for acceptance can make you invisible in this world. Don't let anything stand in the way of the light that shines through this form, risk being seen in all of your glory. My soul is not contained within the limits of my body, my body is contained within the limitlessness of my soul. Now I'm always at the beginning, I have a reset button and I ride that button constantly. Once that button is functioning in your life there is no story that the mind can create that will be as compelling. Imagination is always manufacturing scenarios both good and bad and the ego tries to keep you trapped in the multiplex of the mind. Our eyes are not just viewers, they are also projectors that are running a second story over the picture that we see in front of us all the time. Fear is writing that script, and the working title is I'll never be enough. 

I had a substitute teacher from Ireland in the second grade that told my class during morning prayer that when she wants something, anything at all, she prays for it and promises something in return and she always gets what she wants. I'm sitting at the back of the classroom, you know, thinking "wow, my family can't afford a bike" so I went home and I prayed for one, and I promised that I would recite the rosary every night in exchange. Broke it, broke that promise. But 2 weeks later I got home from school to find a brand new mustang bike with a banana seat and easy rider handle bars. From fool to cool. My family informed me that I had won the bike in raffle that a friend of mine had entered my name in without my knowledge whatsoever. So that time of thing has been happening to me ever since. And as far as I can tell it's just about letting the universe know what you want and working toward it while letting go of how it comes to pass. No matter what you gain ego will not let you rest, it will tell you that you cannot stop until you've left an indelible mark on the Earth, until you've achieved immortality. How tricky is this ego that it would tempt us with the promise of something we already possess. Relax and dream up a good life. 

[[Works I Find Compelling]]